roles/README.rst, before:

Roles
=====

The yaml files in this directory can be combined into a single roles_data.yaml
and be used with TripleO to create custom deployments.

Use tripleoclient to build your own custom roles_data.yaml for your
environment.

roles_data.yaml
---------------

The roles_data.yaml specifies which roles (groups of nodes) will be deployed.
Note this file is used as an input the the various \*.j2.yaml jinja2 templates,
so that they are converted into \*.yaml during the plan creation. This occurs
via a mistral action/workflow. The file format of this file is a yaml list.

Role YAML files
===============

Each role yaml file should contain only a single role. The filename should
match the role name. The name of the role is  mandatory and must be unique.

The role files in this folder should contain at least a role name and the
default list of services for the role.

Role Options
------------

* CountDefault: (number) optional, default number of nodes, defaults to 0
  sets the default for the {{role.name}}Count parameter in overcloud.yaml

* HostnameFormatDefault: (string) optional default format string for hostname
  defaults to '%stackname%-{{role.name.lower()}}-%index%'
  sets the default for {{role.name}}HostnameFormat parameter in overcloud.yaml

* disable_constraints: (boolean) optional, whether to disable Nova and Glance
  constraints for each role specified in the templates.

* disable_upgrade_deployment: (boolean) optional, whether to run the
  ansible upgrade steps for all services that are deployed on the role. If set
  to True, the operator will drive the upgrade for this role's nodes.

* upgrade_batch_size: (number): batch size for upgrades where tasks are
  specified by services to run in batches vs all nodes at once.
  This defaults to 1, but larger batches may be specified here.

* ServicesDefault: (list) optional default list of services to be deployed
  on the role, defaults to an empty list. Sets the default for the
  {{role.name}}Services parameter in overcloud.yaml

* tags: (list) list of tags used by other parts of the deployment process to
  find the role for a specific type of functionality. Currently a role
  with both 'primary' and 'controller' is used as the primary role for the
  deployment process. If no roles have have 'primary' and 'controller', the
  first role in this file is used as the primary role.

* description: (string) as few sentences describing the role and information
  pertaining to the usage of the role.

Working with Roles
==================
The tripleoclient provides a series of commands that can be used to view
roles and generate a roles_data.yaml file for deployment.

Listing Available Roles
-----------------------
The ``openstack overcloud role list`` command can be used to view the list
of roles provided by tripleo-heat-templates.

Usage
^^^^^
.. code-block::

  usage: openstack overcloud role list [-h] [--roles-path <roles directory>]

  List availables roles

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    --roles-path <roles directory>
                          Filesystem path containing the role yaml files. By
                          default this is /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-
                          templates/roles

Example
^^^^^^^
.. code-block::

  [user@host ~]$ openstack overcloud role list
  BlockStorage
  CephStorage
  Compute
  Controller
  ControllerOpenstack
  Database
  Messaging
  Networker
  ObjectStorage
  Telemetry
  Undercloud

Viewing Role Details
--------------------
The ``openstack overcloud role show`` command can be used as a quick way to
view some of the information about a role.

Usage
^^^^^
.. code-block::

  usage: openstack overcloud role show [-h] [--roles-path <roles directory>]
                                       <role>

  Show information about a given role

  positional arguments:
    <role>                Role to display more information about.

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    --roles-path <roles directory>
                          Filesystem path containing the role yaml files. By
                          default this is /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-
                          templates/roles

Example
^^^^^^^
.. code-block::

  [user@host ~]$ openstack overcloud role show Compute
  ###############################################################################
  # Role Data for 'Compute'
  ###############################################################################
  HostnameFormatDefault: '%stackname%-novacompute-%index%'
  ServicesDefault:
   * OS::TripleO::Services::AuditD
   * OS::TripleO::Services::CACerts
   * OS::TripleO::Services::CephClient
   * OS::TripleO::Services::CephExternal
   * OS::TripleO::Services::CertmongerUser
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Collectd
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeCeilometerAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeNeutronCorePlugin
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeNeutronL3Agent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeNeutronMetadataAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeNeutronOvsAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Docker
   * OS::TripleO::Services::FluentdClient
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Kernel
   * OS::TripleO::Services::MySQLClient
   * OS::TripleO::Services::NeutronSriovAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::NeutronVppAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::NovaCompute
   * OS::TripleO::Services::NovaLibvirt
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Ntp
   * OS::TripleO::Services::OpenDaylightOvs
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Securetty
   * OS::TripleO::Services::SensuClient
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Snmp
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Sshd
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Timezone
   * OS::TripleO::Services::TripleoFirewall
   * OS::TripleO::Services::TripleoPackages
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Vpp
  name: 'Compute'

Generate roles_data.yaml
------------------------
The ``openstack overcloud roles generate`` command can be used to generate
a roles_data.yaml file for deployments.

Usage
^^^^^
.. code-block::

  usage: openstack overcloud roles generate [-h]
                                            [--roles-path <roles directory>]
                                            [-o <output file>]
                                            <role> [<role> ...]

  Generate roles_data.yaml file

  positional arguments:
    <role>                List of roles to use to generate the roles_data.yaml
                          file for the deployment. NOTE: Ordering is important
                          if no role has the "primary" and "controller" tags. If
                          no role is tagged then the first role listed will be
                          considered the primary role. This usually is the
                          controller role.

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    --roles-path <roles directory>
                          Filesystem path containing the role yaml files. By
                          default this is /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-
                          templates/roles
    -o <output file>, --output-file <output file>
                          File to capture all output to. For example,
                          roles_data.yaml

Example
^^^^^^^
.. code-block::

  [user@host ~]$ openstack overcloud roles generate -o roles_data.yaml Controller Compute BlockStorage ObjectStorage CephStorage

Commit message:

Make network-isolation environment rendered for all roles
Currently there's some hard-coded references to roles here, rendering
from the roles_data.yaml is a step towards making the use of isolated
networks for custom roles easier.

Partial-Bug: #1633090
Depends-On: Ib681729cc2728ca4b0486c14166b6b702edfcaab
Change-Id: If3989f24f077738845d2edbee405bd9198e7b7db

roles/README.rst, after:

Roles
=====

The yaml files in this directory can be combined into a single roles_data.yaml
and be used with TripleO to create custom deployments.

Use tripleoclient to build your own custom roles_data.yaml for your
environment.

roles_data.yaml
---------------

The roles_data.yaml specifies which roles (groups of nodes) will be deployed.
Note this file is used as an input the the various \*.j2.yaml jinja2 templates,
so that they are converted into \*.yaml during the plan creation. This occurs
via a mistral action/workflow. The file format of this file is a yaml list.

Role YAML files
===============

Each role yaml file should contain only a single role. The filename should
match the role name. The name of the role is  mandatory and must be unique.

The role files in this folder should contain at least a role name and the
default list of services for the role.

Role Options
------------

* CountDefault: (number) optional, default number of nodes, defaults to 0
  sets the default for the {{role.name}}Count parameter in overcloud.yaml

* HostnameFormatDefault: (string) optional default format string for hostname
  defaults to '%stackname%-{{role.name.lower()}}-%index%'
  sets the default for {{role.name}}HostnameFormat parameter in overcloud.yaml

* disable_constraints: (boolean) optional, whether to disable Nova and Glance
  constraints for each role specified in the templates.

* disable_upgrade_deployment: (boolean) optional, whether to run the
  ansible upgrade steps for all services that are deployed on the role. If set
  to True, the operator will drive the upgrade for this role's nodes.

* upgrade_batch_size: (number): batch size for upgrades where tasks are
  specified by services to run in batches vs all nodes at once.
  This defaults to 1, but larger batches may be specified here.

* ServicesDefault: (list) optional default list of services to be deployed
  on the role, defaults to an empty list. Sets the default for the
  {{role.name}}Services parameter in overcloud.yaml

* tags: (list) list of tags used by other parts of the deployment process to
  find the role for a specific type of functionality. Currently a role
  with both 'primary' and 'controller' is used as the primary role for the
  deployment process. If no roles have have 'primary' and 'controller', the
  first role in this file is used as the primary role.

* description: (string) as few sentences describing the role and information
  pertaining to the usage of the role.

 * networks: (list), optional list of networks which the role will have
   access to when network isolation is enabled. The names should match
   those defined in network_data.yaml.

Working with Roles
==================
The tripleoclient provides a series of commands that can be used to view
roles and generate a roles_data.yaml file for deployment.

Listing Available Roles
-----------------------
The ``openstack overcloud role list`` command can be used to view the list
of roles provided by tripleo-heat-templates.

Usage
^^^^^
.. code-block::

  usage: openstack overcloud role list [-h] [--roles-path <roles directory>]

  List availables roles

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    --roles-path <roles directory>
                          Filesystem path containing the role yaml files. By
                          default this is /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-
                          templates/roles

Example
^^^^^^^
.. code-block::

  [user@host ~]$ openstack overcloud role list
  BlockStorage
  CephStorage
  Compute
  Controller
  ControllerOpenstack
  Database
  Messaging
  Networker
  ObjectStorage
  Telemetry
  Undercloud

Viewing Role Details
--------------------
The ``openstack overcloud role show`` command can be used as a quick way to
view some of the information about a role.

Usage
^^^^^
.. code-block::

  usage: openstack overcloud role show [-h] [--roles-path <roles directory>]
                                       <role>

  Show information about a given role

  positional arguments:
    <role>                Role to display more information about.

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    --roles-path <roles directory>
                          Filesystem path containing the role yaml files. By
                          default this is /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-
                          templates/roles

Example
^^^^^^^
.. code-block::

  [user@host ~]$ openstack overcloud role show Compute
  ###############################################################################
  # Role Data for 'Compute'
  ###############################################################################
  HostnameFormatDefault: '%stackname%-novacompute-%index%'
  ServicesDefault:
   * OS::TripleO::Services::AuditD
   * OS::TripleO::Services::CACerts
   * OS::TripleO::Services::CephClient
   * OS::TripleO::Services::CephExternal
   * OS::TripleO::Services::CertmongerUser
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Collectd
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeCeilometerAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeNeutronCorePlugin
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeNeutronL3Agent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeNeutronMetadataAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::ComputeNeutronOvsAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Docker
   * OS::TripleO::Services::FluentdClient
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Kernel
   * OS::TripleO::Services::MySQLClient
   * OS::TripleO::Services::NeutronSriovAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::NeutronVppAgent
   * OS::TripleO::Services::NovaCompute
   * OS::TripleO::Services::NovaLibvirt
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Ntp
   * OS::TripleO::Services::OpenDaylightOvs
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Securetty
   * OS::TripleO::Services::SensuClient
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Snmp
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Sshd
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Timezone
   * OS::TripleO::Services::TripleoFirewall
   * OS::TripleO::Services::TripleoPackages
   * OS::TripleO::Services::Vpp
  name: 'Compute'

Generate roles_data.yaml
------------------------
The ``openstack overcloud roles generate`` command can be used to generate
a roles_data.yaml file for deployments.

Usage
^^^^^
.. code-block::

  usage: openstack overcloud roles generate [-h]
                                            [--roles-path <roles directory>]
                                            [-o <output file>]
                                            <role> [<role> ...]

  Generate roles_data.yaml file

  positional arguments:
    <role>                List of roles to use to generate the roles_data.yaml
                          file for the deployment. NOTE: Ordering is important
                          if no role has the "primary" and "controller" tags. If
                          no role is tagged then the first role listed will be
                          considered the primary role. This usually is the
                          controller role.

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    --roles-path <roles directory>
                          Filesystem path containing the role yaml files. By
                          default this is /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-
                          templates/roles
    -o <output file>, --output-file <output file>
                          File to capture all output to. For example,
                          roles_data.yaml

Example
^^^^^^^
.. code-block::

  [user@host ~]$ openstack overcloud roles generate -o roles_data.yaml Controller Compute BlockStorage ObjectStorage CephStorage
