network/config/single-nic-vlans/README.md, before:

This directory contains Heat templates to help configure
VLANs on a single NIC for each Overcloud role.

There are two versions of the controller role template, one with
an external network interface, and another without. If the
external network interface is not configured, the ctlplane address
ranges will be used for external (public) network traffic.

Configuration
-------------

To make use of these templates create a Heat environment that looks
something like this:

  resource\_registry:
    OS::TripleO::BlockStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/cinder-storage.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Compute::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/compute.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Controller::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/controller.yaml
    OS::TripleO::ObjectStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/swift-storage.yaml
    OS::TripleO::CephStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/ceph-storage.yaml

Or use this Heat environment file:

  environments/net-single-nic-with-vlans.yaml

Configuration with no External Network
--------------------------------------

Same as above except set the following value for the controller role:

    OS::TripleO::Controller::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/controller-no-external.yaml

Configuration with System Management Network
--------------------------------------------

The Management network is included for upgrade compatibility with
previous versions, but disabled. To enable the optional System
Management network, create a Heat environment that looks something like
this:

  resource\_registry:
    OS::TripleO::Network::Management: ../network/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Controller::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Compute::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::CephStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::ObjectStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::BlockStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml

Or use this Heat environment file:

  environments/network-management.yaml

Or, enable the Management network in network_data.yaml, and add the network
to the list of networks used by each role in the role definition file
(e.g. roles_data.yaml). Refer to installation documentation for procedure
to generate a role file for custom roles.

Commit message:

Enable management network in network_data
This change enables the management network in network_data to allow
upgrading environments that were initially deployed with this optional
network enabled.

Change-Id: I39b1a70f0a27bdab4d6280d54107ff209d4bb67d
Closes-bug: 1765547

network/config/single-nic-vlans/README.md, after:

This directory contains Heat templates to help configure
VLANs on a single NIC for each Overcloud role.

There are two versions of the controller role template, one with
an external network interface, and another without. If the
external network interface is not configured, the ctlplane address
ranges will be used for external (public) network traffic.

Configuration
-------------

To make use of these templates create a Heat environment that looks
something like this:

  resource\_registry:
    OS::TripleO::BlockStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/cinder-storage.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Compute::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/compute.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Controller::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/controller.yaml
    OS::TripleO::ObjectStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/swift-storage.yaml
    OS::TripleO::CephStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/ceph-storage.yaml

Or use this Heat environment file:

  environments/net-single-nic-with-vlans.yaml

Configuration with no External Network
--------------------------------------

Same as above except set the following value for the controller role:

    OS::TripleO::Controller::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/single-nic-vlans/controller-no-external.yaml

Configuration with System Management Network
--------------------------------------------

The Management network is enabled for backwards-compatibility, but
is not included in any roles by default. To enable the optional System
Management network, create a Heat environment that looks something like
this:

  resource\_registry:
    OS::TripleO::Network::Management: ../network/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Controller::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Compute::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::CephStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::ObjectStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::BlockStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml

Or use this Heat environment file:

  environments/network-management.yaml

Or, add the network to the list of networks used by each role in the role
definition file (e.g. roles_data.yaml). Refer to installation documentation
for procedure to generate a role file for custom roles.
