network/config/multiple-nics/README.md, before:

This directory contains Heat templates to help configure
multiple NICs for each Overcloud role, where it is
assumed that each NIC is running a specific network
traffic type and that VLANs are not being used.

Configuration
-------------

To make use of these templates create a Heat environment that looks
something like this:

  resource\_registry:
    OS::TripleO::BlockStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/cinder-storage.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Compute::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/compute.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Controller::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/controller.yaml
    OS::TripleO::ObjectStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/swift-storage.yaml
    OS::TripleO::CephStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/ceph-storage.yaml

Or use this Heat environment file:

  environments/net-multiple-nics.yaml

Configuration with System Management Network
--------------------------------------------

The Management network is enabled for backwards-compatibility, but
is not included in any roles by default. To enable the optional System
Management network, create a Heat environment that looks something like
this:

  resource\_registry:
    OS::TripleO::Network::Management: ../network/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Controller::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Compute::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::CephStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::ObjectStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::BlockStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml

Or use this Heat environment file:

  environments/network-management.yaml

Or, add the network to the list of networks used by each role in the role
definition file (e.g. roles_data.yaml). Refer to installation documentation
for procedure to generate a role file for custom roles.

Commit message:

Remove legacy controller-v6.yaml NIC config templates
Recent changes to the network interface configurations in THT
make it unneccessary to use the special controller-v6.yaml
template. Instead, adding both an IPv6 and an IPv4 network
to the default_route_networks: parameter in roles_data.yaml
will result in both an IPv4 and an IPv6 default route.

For instance:
  default_route_networks: ['ControlPlane', 'External']

Change-Id: I23ae304362bd0029cc921010155414f023b19c54
Closes-bug: 1793581

network/config/multiple-nics/README.md, after:

This directory contains Heat templates to help configure
multiple NICs for each Overcloud role, where it is
assumed that each NIC is running a specific network
traffic type and that VLANs are not being used.

Configuration
-------------

To make use of these templates create a Heat environment that looks
something like this:

  resource\_registry:
    OS::TripleO::BlockStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/cinder-storage.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Compute::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/compute.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Controller::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/controller.yaml
    OS::TripleO::ObjectStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/swift-storage.yaml
    OS::TripleO::CephStorage::Net::SoftwareConfig: network/config/multiple-nics/ceph-storage.yaml

Or use this Heat environment file:

  environments/net-multiple-nics.yaml

Configuration with IPv6 Networks
--------------------------------

There is no longer a requirement to use controller-v6.yaml for Controller nodes
when deploying with IPv6. You may now define both an IPv4 network and an IPv6
network as default routes by adding both networks to the default_route_networks
list for the Controller role in roles_data.yaml.

Configuration with System Management Network
--------------------------------------------

The Management network is enabled for backwards-compatibility, but
is not included in any roles by default. To enable the optional System
Management network, create a Heat environment that looks something like
this:

  resource\_registry:
    OS::TripleO::Network::Management: ../network/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Controller::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Compute::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::CephStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::ObjectStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml
    OS::TripleO::BlockStorage::Ports::ManagementPort: ../network/ports/management.yaml

Or use this Heat environment file:

  environments/network-management.yaml

Or, add the network to the list of networks used by each role in the role
definition file (e.g. roles_data.yaml). Refer to installation documentation
for procedure to generate a role file for custom roles.
